# Abbreviations for common terms used on the server.

**RP: Roleplay**  - To take up a character and act like they would, performing out their emotions, feelings, characteristics and actions.

**IC: In Character**  - When you are Roleplaying and are in your character.

**OOC: Out of Character**  - This has two applications within the server:

- Something done outside of your character, this may be a list of things but all boil down to things that would not been done while In Character.

- To use the server wide OOC chat, where you may talk OOCly with other players about various things.

**LOOC: Local Out of Character**  - Only the people near your character will see this out of character text.

**Deadchat:** -  A special chat for observers/ghosts who've died in game. People are free to discuss current round information in this chat, and
it is considered to be another form of OOC.

**SSD:**  Sudden Sleep Disorder - When a player disconnects or loses connection, his character will fall over and begin to sleep. This
phenomenon is referred to as going ‘SSD.’

**Antag: Antagonist**  - A player that has gotten an antagonist role, designed to add some chaos to the round to make things fun.

Valid: Mostly referring to Antagonists that are able to be killed by other players under any context. Certain Antagonists (Nuke ops, Wizard,
Blob, Xenos, Terror Spiders) are all considered valid, while others (Traitor, Changeling, Cult, Shadowlings) are not. Cluwnes are always valid
under any and all circumstances.

**Murderboning: Excessive Killing**  - A player who excessively kills everyone in his path not because he has to but rather he wants to do so.

**Self Antaging: Antagonizing without being an Antag**  - Self Antaging refers to players who decide to do actions that normally only a
Antagonist would do, i.e; Murdering other players, heavily damaging the station or causing chaos on a mass scale.

Disclaimer: Paradise Station is a private server. The Server Staff reserves the right to refuse entry to anyone they believe is detrimental to
the server and its community. Even if no Rules are broken, but we believe the spirit of them has been, we may ban you. This decision will not be
made on the spot, and will require discussion and consent of the Senior Staff

# Rule 0: Don't be a dick

Practice common sense while consulting these rules. The general idea counts, not the exact wording. The rules are guidelines for the server and
should be interpreted to suit the situation at hand, not manipulated to suit your needs. Attempting to Rules-Lawyer an Administrator is never a
good idea, and likely to result in harsher punishment

The Server Staff retains the right to issue Permanent Bans to players that they consider to be a consistent net negative to the community and
server, without the need for any specific Rule to be broken.


# Rule 1: Listen to the Admins

The Staff Members have final say on the server. If you are banned or job banned from the server, you are to write an appeal instead of
continuing the conversation via Adminhelp or Discord messages.

The Adminhelp system is not to be spammed. If you do not get a response, the Administrators are either busy with other matters or not available.

If no Administrators are available, you may take your request to the forums if needed. If an Administrator asks you to stop arguing over the
in-game PMs, you must stop but may take it to the Review Board;

We hold the right to deem a Ckey inappropriate to the server and can ask you to make a separate account to log in with. Examples of
inappropriateness include, but are not limited to, excessive vulgar language, bigotry or references to real life celebrities;

When in doubt, Adminhelp any question you may have about the Server Rules.


# Rule 2: Roleplaying Standards

The following behaviors are prohibited on Paradise Station:

Metagaming (using OOC information acquired via means unavailable to other players. Examples include, but are not limited to, third-party
software or direct, physical communication). This includes streaming; get permission from the Server Staff via ahelp before each round you stream.

Placing current round information into OOC chat (IC in OOC);

Using LOOC to talk to others to give them current round information. This applies to Ghosts as well. If you want to provide minor instruction to
a nearby player, please inform the Server Staff before doing so;

Using multiple accounts for yourself during a round (Multikeying) is not allowed. Simply having multiple accounts, by itself, is permitted - but
we require you to inform us so we can add a note that these accounts are both yours;

When it comes to suiciding, do not suicide upon getting caught, or when converted by a conversion Antagonist.


## Regarding Roleplaying:

[Obligatory Wikipedia link.](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Role-playing_game)

Paradise Station is a Medium Roleplaying Server. This means that we do not expect players to completely and absolutely immerse themselves in the
universe of the game. However, we still expect players to act in-character at all times, in a manner befitting the overall scenario: that of
working aboard a high-tech research space station owned by a Galactic MegaCorp with dubious moral standards.

We do not restrict knowledge on any Antagonists, but you may pick and choose what your character knows. Similarly, we do not enforce Clone
Memory Disorder (amnesia after cloning/borging), but you may freely play it straight in your character. We also do not restrict knowledge based
on your job.

Administrators may ask you to change your behavior if it is seen by the Server Staff as damaging the IC atmosphere of the server. Examples
include, but are not limited to: references to memes or real life events, full reference characters (such as a Diona named Groot who says
nothing but "I am Groot"), or an excessive amount of unserious, out-of-universe behavior in an IC context (with the obvious exception of the
Clown and Mime).

## Regarding Non-Serious and/or Improper character names:

Your character is an employee of a powerful corporation serving on a cutting edge space station. Names should be context appropriate and support
appropriate role-play. The clown will have considerably more freedom of "meme" naming then the captain. Failing to adhere to these standards
will result to either IC or OOC consequences (including changing the name) depending on play history, severity, subjective quality of role play
(with a preference on "medium") and OOC factors.

If you think a name should be allowed that an admins thinks of otherwise, this can be sent for review. However, until the review is finalized,
the decision of the admin at the time remains.


## Regarding In-Character speech:

The use of ‘Netspeak’( Th15 15 1337 sp33k), Internet Acronyms ("lol", "lmao", "rofl") and ‘Smilies’(:D) are prohibited from use in In-Character
verbal chat but are allowed through IC written text such as a sheet of paper or PDA messaging.

## Regarding "Powergaming":

The Server Staff retain the right to ask you to tone down what is perceived as being excessive powergaming that causes noticeable disruption to
the rest of the playerbase. Powergaming is readily defined as the prioritization of amassing mechanical advantages for yourself, to the
detriment of the enjoyment of others or the creation of interesting RP situations, and is to be avoided in favor of methods that both encourage
and promote the fun of all parties involved in interactions where such moderation is possible.


## Regarding Flavour Text:

Your character's flavor text should only contain information that any other character could discern at a glance. Any characteristic that would
not be physically visible at a glance (such as personality, backstory, and so on) should not be included in the flavor text.

Providing a link to drawn art of your character or your character bio/crew records is acceptable, though it must remain within SFW boundaries.


# Rule 3: SSD Players

SSD Players are players that have disconnected from the game. They can be identified by examining them, which will reveal that “They have
suddenly fallen asleep!”, or by clicking on them with Help Intent selected, which will outright tell you they are SSD.

You may not touch or interact with people under the influence of 'Sudden Sleep Disorder' except to pull them to Cryodorms and place them in a
Cryosleeper, to provide medical care to SSD players, such as medication or surgery, or to remove them from an immediate life threatening
situation, such as a plasma fire;

Even if the person in question who goes SSD is wanted, you may not arrest them without Adminhelping for permission. Likewise, you may not kill
them if they are your assassination target. In this last case, place them in Cryodorms, and after they are removed from the round, you will
automatically be given a new target;

If the person goes SSD immediately after an arrest, you are free to continue processing and brigging them as if they were still awake. Likewise,
if your assassination target goes SSD immediately after you begin attacking them, you are free to continue your assault;

If you believe an SSD person needs to be interacted with (such as an SSD Captain needing to have their equipment removed), ask the
Administrators first.


# Rule 4: Maintaining a Respectful Environment

Under no circumstances is OOC harassment of another player allowed, regardless of who the victim is. Repeated IC harassment with little to no
reason can be considered metagrudging;

Racial, Homophobic, Ethnic, Religious, etc, slurs are not allowed ICly or OOCly. Terms such as "faggot" and "nigger", or any variations on them
(such as "ligger", "furfag", etc.) are expressly not allowed. Interspecies racism is allowed (so long as no other Rules are broken), as it is
considered IC;

Excessive profanity in OOC is not allowed. Keep profanity to a minimum and completely stop if it begins to upset other players or you are asked
to stop by a member of the Server Staff;

Do not use the server to advertise other servers or for other commercial interests. An exception may be made if you seek Administrator approval
(e,g, if you require help to test a server feature on a local testing server).

Do not put down, invalidate, berate and/or otherwise insult any player, community or server. While anger, frustration, and abuse may be quite
suitable ICly, you may be asked to stop by an Administrator if it is seen as over the top, spamming, or without good cause. You can easily enjoy
your time on a specific server without having to share your disinterest or plain criticism of other ones.


# Rule 5: Play the Role you've chosen

Choose the role based on what you want to spend the round doing;

Choosing to play as a VIP (such as the Nanotrasen Representative), Head of Staff (such as Chief Medical Officer), or the station AI means you will be expected to play to a higher standard of roleplay, seriousness and competence. You may be Jobbaned from Command if you fail to meet these standards, or if you ignore your duties;

If you need to leave the round early as a VIP, Head of Staff, or the station AI you must inform Command and place yourself in cryo, or in the case of the AI, use the Wipe Core verb in the OOC tab. If you cannot do this for any reason, then you must instead Adminhelp prior to leaving so that an Administrator can remove you after logging out. Failing to inform Command and cryoing yourself, wiping your core, or informing the admins will lead to a VIP and Command, or Synthetic Jobban where appropriate;

If due to some emergency or technical issue you disconnect as a role listed above and are Jobbanned on the pretense of leaving without notifying Command or an Administrator, a quick appeal on the forums explaining what happened will solve the issue and revert the Jobban;

If you choose to join as an important non-Command role, such as a Doctor or Engineer, you are expected to be able to fulfill said role's duties to a reasonable extent when work is actually needed to be done. Using the job just for the equipment, or consistently ignoring any emergencies that may require your attention may lead to a Jobban;

The Captain and members of Security are expected to follow and have a good understanding of Space Law and SOP (Standard Operating Procedure). Consistent abuse of these positions will lead to a Jobban; however, you may request to play a corrupt member of Security via Adminhelp, with valid justification;

Following, or failing to follow SOP is an IC issue, and should be handled and enforced in-character, not via Adminhelp, unless the player in question runs afoul of other Server Rules or the behavior persists excessively over multiple rounds. However, jobs which specifically involve SOP - NT Rep , IAA, and Magistrate - are required to follow it;

The order of the Laws determine their priority for Synthetics, with higher priority laws being displayed first. If one contradicts another, you are to follow the highest on the list. Common sense is to be used with all default Lawsets – they have been installed by NT for the protection of the station and their interests. Rules Lawyering Lawsets in order to antagonize the crew is not allowed, and will lead to a Synthetics Jobban;

Synthetics may not ask for law changes, attempt to force the crew to change laws, or prevent Command from lawfully changing their laws unless they are an Antagonist, subverted, or their laws require it. If you suspect a law to be grief, Adminhelp before acting upon it;

Cyborgs are expected to follow the same guidelines as organic crewmembers charged with those tasks, unless their laws state otherwise (eg, Engineering Cyborgs should follow the same guidelines as organic Engineers). Cyborgs are to follow an AI's commands without hesitation, unless unlinked or Laws dictate otherwise;

Frequently joining a round, only to then leave or commit suicide if you did not get an Antagonist Role (Antag Fishing), is not permitted;


# Rule 6: Play Antagonists Responsibly

Remember the goal of an Antagonist is to make the round exciting, fun, and dangerous, within limits. You should make an effort to add to the
round, as opposed to simply completing your objectives and carrying on normally.

The role of the Antagonist may pit you against the station. However, this is not grounds for murderboning the entire crew if your objective is
to steal a jetpack, as you must work towards your objectives, not general mayhem. You may, however, antagonize/murder specific people who will
help you complete your objective or who are hindering you from completing said objective. You are also permitted to freely defend yourself with
lethal force if another player attempts to capture/hinder you;

The “Die a Glorious Death” objective does not mean “Kill until killed”, nor is it an excuse to take a large segment of the station down with
you;

If you are not willing to act as an Antagonist, or if you have to leave the round midway, Adminhelp so someone else can fill your role;

The “Hijack the Shuttle” objective means you are able to unleash whatever chaos is required on the station to accomplish your objectives.
Certain rules, such as the ones concerning Metagaming and ERP, still apply. If in doubt, Adminhelp it;

Lone Antagonists (Traitors, Changelings, Vampires, Malfunctioning AIs, Wizards) are under no obligation to work together, and are free to
attack/hinder/mess with one another. However, Team Antagonists (Nuke Ops, Cult, Shadowlings, Abductors, Swarmers, Revolutionariess) must work
together at all times;

Antagonists are permitted to assist other antagonists with their objectives. They must tell you what their objectives are, before you can help
them. They cannot simply request 'help'. They have to be specific about what the objective is, e.g: "The Syndicate asked me to kill X. Will you
help?". This does not entitle you to mass-murder, or take other hijack-only actions, unless the person you are helping clearly tells you that
they have hijack. If they do tell you that they have hijack, and you plan to help them by doing hijack-only actions, please ahelp this to let us
know;

Releasing the Singularity or the Tesla, tampering with Atmospherics, large scale destruction, or any other action that directly warrants a
Shuttle Call, is reserved for those who have the "Hijack the Shuttle" Antagonist objective, or are a round-ending Antagonist by default (such as
a Malfunctioning AI, Nuclear Operative or Wizard). The exception is if you have been given permission by the Server Staff;

Antagonists are permitted to pursue their objectives even on the Escape Shuttle;

Antagonists may not spawn camp the Arrivals Shuttle, or the immediate area, for late arrival victims


# Rule 7: Self-Antagging

Some forms of Self-Antagging may be highly subjective. If an Administrator tells you to stop certain actions, you are to stop. An Administrator
may also warn you if your general behavior over multiple rounds is becoming a problem, in which case you are to stop. If you need more
clarification as to what behavior is a problem, you're highly encouraged to talk to the Server Staff about this.

## General Rules:

Minor criminal activity is allowed as a Non-Antagonist. However, it will be considered Self-Antagging if it negatively affects a significant
portion of the crew, or is done without any reasonable IC justification and/or provocation;

The use of bombs as a Non-Antagonist is only acceptable in the bomb range, mining asteroid, and other Z-level variants. If you wish to use bombs
on the station for any reason such as a Blob, Alien infestation, etc., contact the Server Staff and get their approval before doing anything;

While the Escape Shuttle is in transit, Shuttle Grief is not allowed. Attacking people on the shuttle for any reason other than self-defense may
lead to a Ban for Shuttle Griefing, with the exception of Antagonists completing their objectives. Violence is allowed once the shuttle has
docked and end round statistics are displayed;

Stealing high-value items (such as the Hand Teleporter) is generally considered Self-Antagging, as it is literally fulfilling the objectives of
an Antagonist. If you believe that your theft of a high-value item is necessary given an emergency situation, please Adminhelp it first;

Breaking people out of the Security Brig area is allowed as a Non-Antagonist to the extent of minor damage to the station. Releasing anyone from
the Permabrig as a Non-Antagonist requires Administrator permission;

Resisting arrest as a Non-Antagonist is allowed, but not to a lethal degree;

Actively diverting Security personnel and resources away from an active and direct Antagonist threat in order to deal with you and your actions
will be considered Self-Antagging;

Claiming your character is a psychopath, has mental disorders, or any other related justification, does not change any of these rules, and is
unacceptable as an excuse


## Assault and Self-Defense:

Murder is not acceptable for non-antags. Killing should only be done in extreme self-defense, during an authorized execution, or in any
situation Security can employ lethal force. If you wish to murder, or at least seriously injure, someone, Administrator permission is required;

Violence capable of inflicting serious damage to someone, especially anything that places them into a critical state, is reserved for
Antagonists. Outside Self-Defense, this kind of violence is not permitted;

Self-defense is allowed to the extent of saving your own life. Putting someone into Critical Condition is considered self-defense only if they
attempted to severely hurt/kill you. Preemptively disabling someone, responding with disproportionate force, or hitting someone while they are
already down, is not self-defense;

Minor assault and fistfights are acceptable, assuming that both players have a reasonable justification as to why the fight started. Assault
without any provocation or warning is strictly disallowed under a majority of circumstances. Adminhelping or posting the words "spiritual goat" in an appeal will let us know you've read the Rules;


## Clown and Mime:

Being the Clown or Mime does not give you a license to break any Server Rules, much less any Rules regarding violence. You are here to entertain
the crew, and can do so via light pranking, puns, jokes or artistic miming;

While defining “humour” is, in fact, very difficult, actions like kidnapping, stabbing someone with a screwdriver or slipping people who are
fighting Nuclear Operatives, should be avoided. Deliberately hampering the crew during a Code Red, or higher, crisis, will give them ample
justification to retaliate accordingly.


# Rule 8: Validhunting

It is only the job of Security to stop Antagonists. If you are not a member of Security, then hunting Antagonists is not something you should be
doing. You may not drop your job, or go out of your way, to hunt Antagonists. You may, however, defend yourself or others from Antagonist attack
if you happen to witness it;

Antagonists that seek to destroy the station itself (Blob, Nuclear Operatives, Malfunctioning AI or Swarmers), or exterminate the whole crew
(Xenomorphs or Wizards) are exempt from this Rule. However, players in jobs such as Medical, or Cargo, are expected to do those jobs if they are
better suited to help the station;

Evidence of Antagonist activity is required before you take steps to treat anyone as an Antagonist. For example, you may not force random people
to drink holy water or randomly drag people into the Chapel


# Rule 9: Karma Trading

Swapping Karma between friends repeatedly or other methods of 'Farming' is an offense that will result in being banned from the Karma system and
all of its unlocks. Exchanging Karma between the same IP is forbidden as well


# Rule 10: Erotic Content

As a general rule, anything more sexualized than kissing and hugging is considered ERP. We obviously cannot list all the fetishes that exist
here, so please use common sense. Administrators may ask you to stop anything they feel is borderline, in which case you are to stop at once;

Sexual innuendos, jokes, remarks, and comments are allowed to only a certain extent. They should not be used excessively and not overdone with
details. Examples such as "Go blow one", "Eat a dick", or "Go twiddle the Captain" are fine;

Linking any type of NSFW content anywhere on the server is strictly prohibited

A massive thanks to Necaladun, Freestyla, SkyPing, Kyet, Scrubmcnoob, FlattestGuitar, Jedr, Fethas, LightFire and Saywat for putting up with my
constant requests for nitpicks

# Advanced Rules

For clarification about how the above rules are interpreted, as well as precedents for each rule, see [The Advanced Rules](https://www.paradisestation.org/wiki/index.php/Rules)


# Changelog (Last Update: 2020/May/18)

2020/May/18: Updated domain links in all files. Moved to HTTPS in all files. Added link to advanced rules at the bottom.

2020/Apr/24: Updated secret phrase

2019/Sept/2: Clarified rule on streaming

2019/August/4: Added this version information.

2019/July/21: Merged some rules, reduced length, changed secret phrase.

2019/July/19: Updated rule 5 paragraph 3 regarding leaving the round / cryoing. Changelog started.
